[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're going to look
at some problems with callbacks.
We're gonna get some practice with them
and then I'm going to articulate to you
the real essence of what
callback hell is about.
But I wanna look at some
issues with callbacks.
So easiest, simplest expression of
a callback in an asynchronous fashion.
We pass the function as
a callback to another utility.
This one happens to be built in
to the JavaScript engine but
it could have been some
other utility in our code.
We pass the callback in.
Now if we were to describe what this
function does or how this function
operates, we might say something
to the effect of set up a timeout.
And then after 1000 milliseconds
execute the console.log state.
Most people would probably nod in
agreement that's roughly how we would
describe the behavior of this program.
Unfortunately that description
is fundamentally insufficient.
There is a deep deficiency there,
in our ability to understand and
reason about, and describe and
articulate what's happening.
So one of the issues that we have
is that our brains are not actually
working in the same way
that the code is working.
But another thing to think about is this
function is oftentimes referred to as
a continuation because there's
a first half of our program and
a second half of our program here.
May not be obvious to you but the first
half of your program is everything on
the outside of the timeout including
the set timeout call itself.
And the second half of your program
is everything inside of the callback.
In essence there's
a general concept of a now,
the stuff that's gonna happen
immediately right now, and a later.
For some definition of later,
which we don't care about.
We don't care what the real
definition of later is,
we just know it's not immediately
after what I'm doing at the moment.
There's some gap, and that gap
could be a zero millisecond delay,
whatever that means.
It could be waiting for an Ajax request,
it could be waiting for
a message from a web worker.
Who knows?
But understanding this notion of now and
later, there's a first half and
a second half.
When we refer to functions
as continuations,
what we mean is, we did the first
half of our program now, and
we wrap the second half of
our program up in a callback.
And we deferred that callback
to happen until later.
And at that later moment,
we're going to pick up and
continue our program
from where we left off.
So that's where we get the term
continuations for callbacks.
>> Kyle Simpson: How many of you have
heard that term callback hell before?
I'm sure many of you will probably raise
your hands in the online chat as well.
Callback hell,
it's one of those shared things almost
like we could have a counseling session
about all the nightmares that we've
had with callback hell, right?
It's usually thought of as having
something to do with this idea of nesting.
And that sometimes is referred to
as the pyramid of doom because
that pyramidal shape,
triangular shape to our code.
But is that we callback hell really is?
I think it's much, much,
much deeper than that.
I would go so far as to say, and
this isn't intended as an insult, but
I would go so far as to say there's
an awful lot of my peers out there that
have described callback hell as having to
do with the indentation in the nesting.
My response is I don't think you've
thought very critically about what
callbacks are really about and
callback hell is about.
This is where I might differentiate
from some of my peers in that I'm much
more focused on the concepts here,
even than the actual
observations in the actual code.
There's something
conceptually deficient here.
There's two conceptually
deficient problems.
I can start out proving to you that it
doesn't really have anything to do with
nesting and indentation by
observing to you that this program
does in fact suffer from callback hell.
But I can rewrite this
program in a different style,
sometimes referred to as
continuation passing style.
And this code is not nearly as
obviously suffering from nesting and
indentation problems, is it?
We've used named function declarations
rather than inline function expressions.
If you look really close you can still
see the fundamental nesting going on but
we don't have the same
pyramidal shape to our code.
And most people that took a glance at this
code would not naturally instinctively
think callback hell.
But that's why callback hell needs to have
a redefinition on our minds, because this
code is every bit as susceptible to
callback hell as the previous code.
Even though the style looks different,
it still has those same problems.
We need a more nuanced, a deeper
view of what callback hell is about.